Washington, DC (CNN Business) Hyperloops burst onto the scene in 2013. Elon Musk detailed a new type of train service in a low-pressure tube that would reach speeds up to 760 mph. The train would float on a cushion of air and be powered down the tracks by magnets.

Like many of Musk's endeavors, including electric cars and rockets, it didn't involve inventing everything from scratch. Musk took existing ideas, re-packaged and rethought them, in hopes of carrying humanity towards a brighter future. But critics aren't yet entirely convinced the new hyperloop thinking can solve old issues.

Trips between the county lines of Los Angeles to San Francisco would take 35 minutes, the Magnetic levitation was already used on high-speed trains in Japan and Germany, and low-pressure pneumatic tubes have been used to move objects since the early 19th century. Combining the two would make higher speeds possible, Musk said.Trips between the county lines of Los Angeles to San Francisco would take 35 minutes, the Tesla and SpaceX CEO said. It would be much cheaper and faster than high-speed rail, he said.

Virgin Hyperloop is among the companies attempting to develop hyperloop technology, which they say will improve on existing trains.

"Hyperloop is novel and interesting, and at the same time a very old idea," Molly Wright Steenson, a Carnegie Mellon University professor who studies technology, communications and design, told CNN Business. "We still face a lot of the problems we faced in 19th century. We're trying to get people very quickly across time and space, and we still have to contend with traffic."

This pneumatic tube center at the New York office of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane is shown in a 1955 photo.

Pneumatic tubes were popularized in the 1800s, scholars say, as an alternative to ground transportation. Capsules containing letters were pushed and sucked through tubes at speeds of about 20 or 30 mph, generally in tunnels under big cities. Telegraphs were much faster than pneumatic tubes, but the final steps of their deliveries were inefficient and expensive, as telegraphs needed to be hand delivered from telegraph offices to their final destinations. So pneumatic tubes were often used between telegraph offices and key destinations such as stock exchanges, the scholars say.

Read More