New York (CNN Business) With Broadway theaters shut down during the pandemic, artists are turning to Clubhouse, a buzzy audio app often used for networking and virtual panels, to create free full-length musicals.

Clubhouse, which is still in beta testing, is an invitation-only app with hundreds of audio chat rooms where its millions of users can talk about a wide range of subjects. For Broadway afficionados, it has provided a platform for actors and artists around the world to connect and get their performing arts fix . And while audio drama isn't a new concept, Clubhouse users have used their own creative backgrounds to revolutionize the app experience.

On her first day using the app in September 2020, Noelle Chesnut Whitmore — who was on furlough from her music festival marketing job — joined a Clubhouse room called "The Cotton Club." Created and led by singer-songwriter Bomani X, the room resembled a real-life jazz club experience where people virtually mingle and designated users act as the club's bartender and DJ. Participants were required to change their profile photos to a black-and-white image of their favorite jazz musician, tapping into Clubhouse's visual capabilities that are limited to user profile photos.

Whitmore's "Cotton Club" experience inspired her to find her own way to get creative. Within two months, she began working on a Clubhouse-based "Lion King: The Musical," connecting with other artists who were interested in pursuing musical opportunities on the app, and it wasn't long before she saw the benefits. During a music industry panel that Whitmore hosted, she connected with the CEO of Geojam, a rewards-based music platform, which is how she landed her current position as chief marketing officer at the company.

The musical went live on Clubhouse on December 26 with afternoon and evening performances. The production followed the 1994 movie script of "The Lion King" word-for-word, with an added original narration by Mir Harris — a creative strategist who starred in and produced the musical — to compensate for the lack of visual components in the performance.

Read More