How these startups are tackling high drug costs in the US

MIAMI, FLORIDA - DECEMBER 15: A healthcare worker at the Jackson Health Systems receives a Pfizer-BioNtech Covid-19 vaccine from Susana Flores Villamil, RN from Jackson Health Systems, at the Jackson Memorial Hospital on December 15, 2020 in Miami, Florida. Jackson Memorial Hospital began the vaccination of frontline healthcare workers joining with hospital systems around the country as the COVID-19 vaccine is rolled out. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)

This illustration photo shows the Coinbase logo in the background as a person checks cryptocurrencies prizes on a smartphone in Los Angeles on April 13, 2021. - The arrival April 13, 2021, of cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase on Nasdaq is one of the most anticipated events of the year on Wall Street, where enthusiasm for record-breaking bitcoin is in full swing, despite questions about the sustainability of the market. (Photo by Chris DELMAS / AFP) (Photo by CHRIS DELMAS/AFP via Getty Images)

New York City will require proof of vaccination for restaurants and gyms

Diners are seated in the outdoor dining area of Gramercy Tavern, where owner Danny Meyer announced a vaccine mandate for all his restaurants, employees and diners will need to show proof of vaccination, New York, NY, July 30, 2021.

A nurse fills up a syringe with the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine at a vaccination site at a senior center on March 29, 2021 in San Antonio, Texas. Texas has opened up all vaccination eligibility to all adults starting today. Texas has had a slower roll out than some states and with the increase in eligibility leaders are hoping more and more citizens get vaccinated. (Photo by Sergio Flores/Getty Images)

Bill Gates opens up to Anderson Cooper about his divorce

People walk by a Help Wanted sign in the Queens borough of New York City on June 04, 2021 in New York City.

This company uses space-age tech to cut your air conditioning bill

Watch how CNN covered the birth of cell phones in 1982

Demand for school supplies is high but the Delta variant could change that

Gretchen Carlson: Going to HR is not always the best thing to do

New York CNN Business —

California’s Department of Fair Employment and Housing filed a civil lawsuit Tuesday against one of America’s largest video game developers Activision Blizzard, alleging multiple female employees were subjected to gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and unequal pay.

“DFEH alleges that women were subjected to constant sexual harassment, including groping, comments, and advances,” the state agency said in a press release. “The lawsuit also alleges that the company’s executives and human resources personnel knew of the harassment and failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the unlawful conduct, and instead retaliated against women who complained.”

A spokesperson for Activision Blizzard (ATVI), the company known for creating popular games including “Call of Duty” and “World of Warcraft,” told CNN they are taking the allegations seriously and have launched internal investigations for all claims.

“We value diversity and strive to foster a workplace that offers inclusivity for everyone,” the spokesperson said. “There is no place in our company or industry, or any industry, for sexual misconduct or harassment of any kind.”

California’s lawsuit contradicts the company’s claims, alleging Activision Blizzard fostered a “frat boy” work culture where female employees have to “continually fend off unwanted sexual comments and advances by their male coworkers,” the filing says.

The company spokesperson told CNN action has been taken to address past issues involving cases of misconduct, blasting the state’s filing and investigation as “inaccurate” and “distorted.”

“The picture the DFEH paints is not the Blizzard workplace of today,” the spokesperson said. “Over the past several years and continuing since the initial investigation started, we’ve made significant changes to address company culture and reflect more diversity within our leadership teams.”

The state, however, alleges in its lawsuit Activision Blizzard maintains a leadership team held exclusively by white men with few women in top roles. DFEH also claims female employees receive lower starting pay and are promoted more slowly than their male counterparts.

The gaming company told CNN they have strived to pay all employees fairly and have also enhanced internal programs to create channels for employees to report violations.

“We are confident in our ability to demonstrate our practices as an equal opportunity employer that fosters a supportive, diverse, and inclusive workplace for our people, and we are committed to continuing this effort in the years to come,” the spokesperson said.

Activision Blizzard is a leading gaming platform headquartered in Santa Monica, California with approximately 9,500 total employees and over 100 million players worldwide, the filing said.

Editor’s Note: This story has been updated to modify the attribution for Activision Blizzard’s spokesperson.