New York CNN Business —

Apple’s call to action to get people to use iOS 13 is working: More than half of all iPhone models introduced in the past four years now use iOS 13.

The 55% adoption rate is speedy considering the operation system was released just a month ago. In total, 50% of all iPhones now use iOS 13, according to data released from the company.

Apple also said that the brand new iPad OS has reached a 41% download rate for tablets introduced in the past four years. Apple released iPad OS nearly a week after iOS 13 rolled out last month. Downloads are on par with the iOS 12 adoption rate last year.

Apple has prompted users to install the new iOS. Several of the new features, including dark mode, have attracted mass attention. Unlike competitors, such as Google’s Android and Microsoft Windows, Apple is more forceful in getting people to use their operating systems with automatic updates.

For example, Android 10 was released in September but works only on some phones, including Google’s Pixel. Samsung announced earlier this week the operating system is slowly being rolled out to only some of its Galaxy phones for now.

Apple has an advantage with iOS, because it releases the update directly instead of through wireless carriers, which David McQueen, an ABI Research analyst, calls a “time-consuming exercise.”

McQueen told CNN Business that Apple’s approach of getting people to download new operating systems themselves “helps massively with reducing fragmentation of the iOS platform, which means it can provide a far richer, uniform user experience for its apps and services across devices.”

He added that is in stark contrast to Android’s fragmented roll out which creates problems.

“This then leads to an inconsistent user experience across the Android ecosystem with the added problem of potential security issues,” he said. “It also becomes a challenge for app developers who want to provide consistency on the platform but are faced with an abundance of smartphone varieties combined with differing Android software versions.”