Kennedy Space Center CNN Business —

When Elon Musk founded SpaceX in 2002, the company’s assigned goal was to get humans into space.

Now that NASA astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley have made it aboard the International Space Station, Musk is breathing a sigh of relief that his company’s Crew Dragon spacecraft and Falcon 9 rocket performed successfully during this weekend mission. Now SpaceX can officially consider itself the first-ever company to send humans into orbit aboard a privately owned spacecraft.

But it’s not over yet. Critical weeks of safety and technical reviews of the spacecraft lie ahead before NASA will officially designate Crew Dragon as an “operational” vehicle. Then, another Crew Dragon spacecraft must be deemed ready for the next mission, dubbed Crew-1, that will carry four more astronauts to the space station: NASA astronauts Victor Glover, Michael Hopkins, Shannon Walker and Japan’s Soichi Noguchi.

NASA is hoping to launch Crew-1 in August.

The mission Behnken and Hurley began over the weekend won’t be considered a success until they return safely to Earth, but their mission is expected to last up to 110 days, and the journey home will be just as perilous as the ride to orbit.

Crew Dragon’s debut, however, is a significant milestone for SpaceX and NASA, and this mission was one of the biggest items both organizations needed to check off the list before turning to larger ambitions.

Access to the International Space Station

The United States hasn’t launched its own astronauts into space since the Space Shuttle program ended in 2011. Since then, NASA’s astronauts have had to travel to Russia and train on the country’s Soyuz spacecraft. Those seats have cost NASA as much as $90 million each.

But the space agency chose not to create its own replacement for the Shuttle. Instead, it asked the private sector to develop a spacecraft capable of safely ferrying astronauts to and from the International Space Station — a controversial decision considering that NASA had never before outsourced the development of a human-rated spacecraft. The thinking was that companies could drive down costs and spur innovation, and NASA would have more time and resources to focus on exploring deeper into the solar system.

In 2014, NASA awarded two contracts: $4.2 billion to Boeing to build its Starliner vehicle, and $2.6 billion to SpaceX, which planned to create a crew worthy version of the Dragon spacecraft that was already flying cargo to and from the International Space Station. NASA had already put money toward SpaceX’s development of the Dragon spacecraft used for transporting cargo, and the space agency has said Boeing received more money because it was designing the Starliner from scratch.

SpaceX's Crew Dragon spacecraft, carrying NASA astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley, splashes down into the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday, August 2. Bill Ingalls/NASA Hurley, left, and Behnken, second from right, ride in a helicopter after returning from space. Bill Ingalls/NASA The Crew Dragon spacecraft is lifted onto a recovery ship shortly after splashdown. Bill Ingalls/NASA Behnken and Hurley give a thumbs-up before being extracted from the Crew Dragon spacecraft. Bill Ingalls/NASA Boats swarm around the Crew Dragon shortly after splashdown. NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine said during a news conference that the Coast Guard was supposed to keep a large swath of ocean around the landing site clear but that some boats made a "beeline" for the capsule. In a statement on August 2, the Coast Guard said, "With limited assets available and with no formal authority to establish zones that would stop boaters from entering the area, numerous boaters ignored the Coast Guard crews' requests and decided to encroach the area, putting themselves and those involved in the operation in potential danger." Bill Ingalls/NASA Hurley and Behnken prepare to undock from the International Space Station on Saturday, August 1. NASA/AP NASA tweeted this photo of Behnken and Hurley on Friday, July 30. NASA "If the weather at our splashdown location is right, next week at this time @SpaceX's Crew Dragon Endeavour will no longer be docked to the front of @Space_Station," Behnken tweeted on Wednesday, July 29. "My family is excited!" NASA Hurley tweeted this photo of Behnken and Chris Cassidy on a spacewalk outside the International Space Station on July 21. NASA Hurley, left, and Behnken brief mission control on June 1. NASA The Crew Dragon spacecraft approaches the International Space Station on May 31. NASA Spectators watch the SpaceX launch from a bridge in Titusville, Florida, on May 30. Charlie Riedel/AP Huge crowds gathered to watch the launch from Titusville, across from Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. Scott Audette/Reuters The spacecraft heads toward the International Space Station on May 30. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters President Donald Trump speaks during an event at Kennedy Space Center after the launch. Alex Brandon/AP An American flag flies as the SpaceX rocket lifts off on May 30. John Raoux/AP SpaceX founder Elon Musk celebrates after the successful launch. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, join President Trump as they watch the launch on May 30. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images People watch the launch from a beach in Cape Canaveral. Joe Rimkus Jr./Reuters Monitors are seen in the Launch Control Center at Kennedy Space Center. Joel Kowsky/NASA Liftoff occurred just after 3:20 p.m. on May 30. SpaceX/Getty Images Hurley says goodbye to his wife and son before the launch on May 30. Joe Skipper/Reuters Trump and Pence arrive at Kennedy Space Center on May 30. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images Hurley and Behnken walk out of the Neil Armstrong Operations and Checkout Building on May 30. Bill Ingalls/AP This was the scene moments before NASA scrubbed a launch on May 27. It was postponed due to bad weather. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Trump and his wife, Melania, tour the Neil Armstrong Operations and Checkout Facility on May 27. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters The Trumps exit Air Force One as they arrive at Kennedy Space Center on May 27. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters Hurley and Behnken ride a Tesla SUV on their way to the launch pad before the cancellation on May 27. John Raoux/AP Hurley and Behnken say goodbye to family members ahead of the planned launch on May 27. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Storm clouds pass over NASA's Vehicle Assembly Building at Kennedy Space Center on May 27. David J. Phillip/AP SpaceX founder Elon Musk wears a face mask while standing near Vice President Mike Pence. Joe Raedle/Getty Images Hurley and Behnken walk out of the Neil Armstrong Operations and Checkout Building. John Raoux/AP Spectators look out from a hotel balcony in Cocoa Beach, Florida, on May 27. Eric Hasert/TCPalm/Imagn Hurley and Behnken prepare to place mission stickers on the windshields of their Tesla vehicles. Joe Raedle/Getty Images The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, with the Crew Dragon spacecraft on top, sits on Launch Pad 39A at Kennedy Space Center. David J. Phillip/AP Spectators wait at a park in Titusville early on May 27. Charlie Riedel/AP In pictures: SpaceX's historic mission Prev Next

Boeing recently suffered a significant setback when a Starliner capsule malfunctioned during a key uncrewed test flight. But if SpaceX can safely return Behnken and Hurley, it’ll be a major win for NASA, which has been pushing for more commercial partnerships.

At times, delays with development of both the Crew Dragon and Boeing’s Starliner capsule have threatened to leave the US portion of the ISS understaffed.

But, after years of anticipation, Crew Dragon capsules are poised to begin making regular trips to and from the space station, allowing NASA to take more control over staffing the ISS. The space agency hopes to have more hands on deck, creating more opportunities for conducting scientific experiments and maintaining ISS operations.

Because the Crew Dragon program is technically owned and operated by SpaceX, the company can even explore opportunities to take tourists or other non-astronauts to space.

Actor Tom Cruise, for example, is working with NASA to eventually film a movie aboard the ISS, the space agency says.

Artemis: NASA’s next moon mission

NASA’s ambitions extend far beyond the ISS, which orbits about 250 miles above Earth.

And last year, Vice President Mike Pence directed the space agency to drastically accelerate its plan to return boots to the lunar surface by later this decade. NASA is now pushing toward a 2024 deadline.

SpaceX wound up being a part of that effort, called the Artemis Program, too. SpaceX proposed a new variant of its Dragon capsule, Dragon XL, that could haul cargo all the way out to a space station that NASA planned to put in orbit around the moon. And last month, SpaceX was among several companies tapped to develop lunar landers, or vehicles that can ferry astronauts from NASA’s Orion spacecraft down to the lunar surface.

For the latter task, SpaceX proposed using the Starship system — a spaceship and rocket that the company is in the early stages of developing at remote facilities in South Texas.

Musk has spent a significant amount of time overseeing that work in Texas lately. And the latest iterations of Starship prototypes haven’t survived very far into the testing process.

The latest Starship test article, called SN4, exploded during ground tests in Boca Chica, Texas, last week.

SpaceX’s Mars ambitions

Musk has given every indication that SpaceX will pour significant resources into Starship development in the months and years ahead.

The company is building a multibilllion-dollar telecom business, Starlink, that SpaceX hopes will help fund development of the Starship program, and the company continues to raise hundreds of millions of dollars from private investors.

The origin of Starship, after all, is not with NASA or its Artemis Program. Starship is at the core of SpaceX’s stated founding mission to establish a colony of humans on Mars.

Technologically speaking, that milestone is likely still a long way from reality.

But Musk, speaking to reporters after Saturday’s Crew Dragon launch, reaffirmed his commitment to Mars as he breathlessly celebrated Hurley and Behnken’s safe departure.

“I am sort of overcome by emotion. To try to come up with cohesive sentences that make any sense is quite difficult,” Musk said before adding, “But I think this is, hopefully, the first step on a journey towards civilization on on Mars.”