Austin, Texas (CNN Business) Four astronauts are on their way home from the International Space Station aboard a SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule, ending their five-month mission to the orbiting laboratory. The astronauts set a record for the longest time in space by a crew that launched aboard an American-built spacecraft.

SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule "Resilience," carrying four NASA astronauts, departs the International Space Station.

On Saturday evening, the crew climbed aboard their spacecraft, which had remained fixed to the space station's docking ports since the astronauts arrived in November. They undocked from the ISS at 8:37 pm ET, and will spend the night aboard their capsule as it freeflies through orbit. The spacecraft fire up its on-board engines to start safely descending back into the Earth's thick atmosphere, and it'll use a series of parachutes to slow its decent before splashing down off the coast Florida Sunday morning around 2:57 am ET.

As the vehicle glides toward the ocean with a plume of four large parachutes billowing overhead, a brigade of rescue ships will be positioned in the Gulf of Mexico to greet the crew on arrival. The astronauts will then be shuttled by helicopter or boat back to NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, which is home base for all US astronauts.

The crew of the SpaceX Crew-1 mission talk to the media after arriving Sunday, Nov. 8, 2020 at Kennedy Space Center, Florida to prepare for their scheduled Nov. 14 launch. From left, mission specialist Shannon Walker, pilot Victor Glover, spacecraft commander Michael Hopkins and mission specialist Soichi Noguchi. (Joe Burbank/Orlando Sentinel/Tribune News Service/Getty Images)

The recovery crews will try to execute their return as quickly as possible. Ocean splashdowns can be rough on astronauts, as the bobbing waves can cause severe seasickness. When asked what meal he was looking forward to upon his return home, NASA astronaut Michael Hopkins acknowledged that he likely won't be feeling up to a gourmet meal.

"If I have an appetite, that's going to be a bonus," Hopkins said during a remote press conference Monday.

Read More