New York (CNN Business) As the future of safe, legal abortion access in the United States has been thrust into doubt, a number of at-home abortion pill startups are positioning themselves to fill some of the void.

Sites such as Choix, Hey Jane and Just the Pill have launched in recent years to offer women in a limited number of states abortion prescriptions via telemedicine and delivered by mail. Thanks to the easing of regulations at the federal level, these startups say their services can cut travel time, in-office wait periods and costs. However, they still face significant regulations and — increasingly — a shifting legislative environment as they seek to grow.

Approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2000, the so-called abortion pill — which involves taking two medications, mifepristone and misoprostol — now accounts for over half of all abortions in the United States, according to the Guttmacher Institute, a research organization that supports abortion rights. Though initially restricted from mail delivery, mifepristone was approved by the FDA for online pharmacy prescription and delivery at the onset of the pandemic, a decision that has since been made permanent. (Misoprostol, also used to prevent ulcers, has long been available with a prescription.)

This regulatory change opened the door to companies that hope to cater to abortion-seekers who either reside in states that allow telehealth abortion care or who travel from their access-restricted home states. While there is no residency or state ID requirements for abortion care, Choix requires patients to have a shipping address within one of the states it serves. Hey Jane requires patients to be within the accessible state for both consult and treatment.

Abortion rights have been called into question after a leaked Supreme Court draft of a majority opinion that would strike down Roe v. Wade was published by Politico in May. The final opinion on the case, which concerns a challenge to Mississippi's 15-week ban on abortion, is expected to be finalized and published this month. However, several states have already passed restrictive laws using state courts as enforcement or have laws in place that would be triggered as soon as Roe v. Wade is overturned. For example, Texas currently has a six-week abortion ban , SB8, and Oklahoma has banned all abortions unless the mother's life is endangered or if the pregnancy is a product of rape and/or incest.

Read More