(CNN Business) When Katerina Horwitz started out as a social media influencer in 2016, she didn't earn much money beyond a handful of sponsored posts. A few years later, Horwitz and her husband Yinon quit their day jobs, started a joint Instagram account and got creative with monetizing their 400,000 followers, including selling their own photo filters and building an app that offers editing templates for Instagram Stories.

The couple received a nearly $30,000 payout from Snapchat from just one video they posted to the platform's They've also earned smaller sums from TikTok for being part of its But recently they've found a simpler revenue stream: earning money directly from social media companies.The couple received a nearly $30,000 payout from Snapchat from just one video they posted to the platform's short-form video hub, Spotlight They've also earned smaller sums from TikTok for being part of its creator fund , which pays social media influencers based on their number of video views.

"We love creating, but of course we're going to go to the platform that pays us the most," Horwitz told CNN Business.

Creators are the lifeblood of any social media platform, driving trends and engagement and building a loyal community. But increasingly, social media companies seem to be waking up to the reality Horwitz described: Creators may join a platform to build an audience, but ultimately the platform has to pay up for them to stick around. In recent months, major tech companies have stepped up to try to do just that, rolling out more and more ways for creators to make money on their platforms, both from ad revenue on their content and direct handouts.

Snapchat is paying out a total of $1 million a day to those users who make the most entertaining videos for its TikTok rival Spotlight. TikTok launched a $200 million creator fund last year, which promises to reach hundreds of thousands of creators with plans for it to grow to $1 billion over the next three years. Twitter recently announced it's exploring the possibility of users becoming paid subscribers to their favorite Twitter accounts. And on Sunday, the audio-focused app Clubhouse announced an accelerator program aimed at helping aspiring creators build and monetize an audience.

Read More