Trump's Truth Social off to a rocky start as errors plague the app

This illustration photo shows a person checking the app store on a smartphone for "Truth Social", with it's website on a computer screen in the background, in Los Angeles, October 20, 2021.

See the videos people are falsely claiming show war in Ukraine

What Elon Musk's big investment in Twitter could mean

BERLIN, GERMANY DECEMBER 01: SpaceX owner and Tesla CEO Elon Musk poses on the red carpet of the Axel Springer Award 2020 on December 01, 2020 in Berlin, Germany. (Photo by Britta Pedersen-Pool/Getty Images)

Why Selena Gomez hasn't been on Instagram in over four years

SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA - FEBRUARY 27: Selena Gomez attends the 28th Screen Actors Guild Awards at Barker Hangar on February 27, 2022 in Santa Monica, California. 1184550 (Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for WarnerMedia)

Swisher on Musk: 'He's not the king of Twitter'

Billionaire entrepreneur and founder of SpaceX Elon Musk speaks at the 68th International Astronautical Congress 2017 in Adelaide on September 29, 2017. - Musk said his company SpaceX has begun serious work on the BFR Rocket as he plans an Interplanetary Transport System. (Photo by PETER PARKS / AFP) (Photo credit should read PETER PARKS/AFP via Getty Images)

Tesla and SpaceX Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk speaks at the SATELLITE Conference and Exhibition in Washington, Monday, March 9, 2020.

Elon Musk at the opening of the Tesla factory in Gruenheide near Berlin on March 22, 2022.

This teen died by suicide. Now his family is suing social media

CJ Dawley died by suicide at the age of 17. His parents allege his social media addiction contributed to his death. (John General/CNN)

Watch: A YouTuber crashed his plane. The FAA said he did it on purpose

NEW YORK, NEW YORK - DECEMBER 13: Elon Musk attends TIME Person of the Year on December 13, 2021 in New York City. (Photo by Theo Wargo/Getty Images for TIME)

New York CNN —

Twitter is banning misleading advertisements that go against the scientific consensus of climate change, the company announced on Friday, which was Earth Day.

“We believe that climate denialism shouldn’t be monetized on Twitter, and that misrepresentative ads shouldn’t detract from important conversations about the climate crisis,” Twitter said in a blog post.

Those denying the effects of climate change have targeted sites such as Twitter and Facebook, enabling them to reach hundreds and thousands of those platforms’ users with false claims.

The announced change did not indicate whether Twitter would ban or delete the accounts of users who post climate change misinformation.

Twitter’s blog post cited the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, whose recent report called for “immediate and deep emissions reductions” to combat the impacts of global warming.

The tech giant said it is working toward adding more “reliable, authoritative context” to conversations about the climate on its platform.

Twitter’s move follows action taken by other tech companies. Earlier this month, Pinterest announced it will prohibit users from sharing climate misinformation on its site, banning the content outright. It will also remove posts that deny climate change.

And last year, Google, announced it was banning ads on content from climate change deniers on its platform, as well as prohibiting advertisements that deny climate change.

Separately, hours after Twitter’s policy update, European policymakers reached agreement on sweeping tech regulations that included stricter rules on how platforms regulate misinformation and illegal content on social media and other platforms.

Big Tech has been facing increased pressure to combat the spread of climate misinformation on their platforms.

An open letter signed by more than 200 scientists, activists and organizations last November called for the CEOs of social media companies including Facebook, Instagram, Google, Twitter, TikTok, Pinterest and Reddit to establish climate misinformation policies similar to the ones they put in place for Covid-19.

Last November, Twitter rolled out efforts to preemptively debunk, or “pre-bunk,” disinformation about such topics as climate change by directing users to online hubs with credible information on its platform. Twitter also joined the EU climate pact earlier in February, committing to increasing efforts on promoting reliable climate information.