(CNN Business) Like many other Spotify users, I opened the music streaming app on Wednesday and received a cheerful message: "Your 2021 Wrapped is here," it read, imploring me to explore the top songs, artists, and podcasts I listened to "in a year that was far from normal."

I cringed while tapping the message to learn more. A brightly colored highlight reel played, showing me what I (mostly) suspected: My top songs included "Don't Start Now" by Dua Lipa, "Banana Boat (Day-O)" by Harry Belafonte (a favorite of my kindergartener) and "Ship to Wreck" by Florence and the Machine (Florence and the Machine was also the top artist I listened to — Spotify Wrapped informed me I spent 699 minutes listening to the band). In all, I listened to 48 different genres of music on Spotify for 6,664 minutes this year; an amount of time that is more than 51% of other listeners in the United States, Spotify helpfully noted.

Oh, and my "audio aura" for the year was heavily green, as my top musical moods, according to Spotify, were "friendly" and "spooky."

Spotify Unwrapped is the music streaming service's annual collection of a user's listening habits. CNN's Rachel Metz listened to a lot of Dua Lipa and Harry Belafonte in 2021.

Spotify Wrapped is, of course, a marketing campaign, and it's an impressively effective one. The music streaming company has presented it annually in early December for the past several years, in the hopes that its 381 million users (172 million of whom are paid subscribers) share these very specific details of their personal listening habits with friends. Spotify knows a lot about its users because it tracks them closely; similar to Netflix, it uses artificial intelligence to recommend music to you based on factors such as what you have listened to in the past.

And people, myself included, were quick to share Spotify Wrapped on social media. I immediately posted a couple of screenshots to Twitter and saw many friends and colleagues had done likewise.

Read More