(CNN Business) Hundreds of thousands of leaked Uber documents obtained by The Guardian and shared with a consortium of news outlets show how during its most aggressive period of growth, the ride-hailing company reportedly employed secret technology to thwart police investigations, sought favors from high-ranking government officials and even perceived a silver lining in possible violent clashes between its drivers and taxicab operators.

The reports by members of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, of which CNN was not a part, renew global scrutiny of Uber's most controversial days from 2013 to 2017 — a period the company has attempted to move past in recent years with new leadership. Under then-CEO and cofounder Travis Kalanick, Uber openly tussled with regulators and taxi drivers amid a cutthroat campaign of worldwide expansion.

taxi operators in Paris, Kalanick had been discussing holding a rally of Uber riders and drivers in the city, according to In 2016, during mass anti-Uber demonstrations bytaxi operators in Paris, Kalanick had been discussing holding a rally of Uber riders and drivers in the city, according to The Washington Post . Kalanick is said to have privately suggested that any violent backlash to the potential event would be "worth it" and would "guarantee success" for the company, according to the leaked documents. The leaked documents reportedly show how Uber appeared to capitalize on attacks against its drivers more generally, by citing them "to secure meetings with politicians and push for regulatory changes," the Post reported

In a wider statement to the consortium responding to a number of the reports, Devon Spurgeon, a spokesperson for Kalanick, said the former CEO "never suggested that Uber should take advantage of violence at the expense of rider safety." Spurgeon confirmed the statement to CNN Business but declined to comment beyond it.

Uber also reportedly used a "kill switch" to prevent company data from falling into the hands of law enforcement during numerous police raids in various countries, according to The Guardian , on a much wider basis than was previously known. The kill switch was reportedly deployed in six countries, including France, the Netherlands, Belgium, India, Hungary and Romania, severing connections between Uber's computers in its local offices from the company's main cloud network. Spurgeon's statement to ICIJ said use of the tool had been approved by Uber's legal and regulatory teams and that it was never "designed or implemented to 'obstruct justice.'"

Read More