(CNN Business) In the early days of the pandemic, as households around the country went into lockdown, shoppers for Instacart had a seemingly limitless amount of grocery orders to fulfill. Their earnings were, at times, bolstered significantly by generous tips in recognition of the personal health risk workers were taking.

But in recent weeks, some shoppers in markets across the country said they have gone hours or even days at a time without seeing many — or any — "batches," which can consist of one or a few orders from different customers, according to social media posts and conversations with five shoppers, each of whom joined the platform during the pandemic. The workers, who spoke with CNN Business on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, are now grappling with the sudden drop in orders surfaced to them and struggling to understand the reasons behind it without more information from the company.

"You're basically just wasting your time," said one worker, who shops in Atlanta. He said he recently sat for two hours outside the two major grocery stores he typically shops near his home without seeing a single order.

The shoppers CNN Business spoke to said they believed the timing of the slowdown corresponded with a recent company app update. Instacart notified workers late last month that it was rolling out a change over "the next few weeks" so that "batches you see will be closer to your location" and warned that this "will result in you seeing less batches in the list view," according to an email viewed by CNN Business. The company said in the email that the goal of the change is to help shoppers "choose batches that are more relevant to you without having to travel too far for a batch."

But the underlying cause appears to be more fundamental: a shift in demand. An Instacart spokesperson told CNN Business there isn't a technical issue but rather the marketplace is stabilizing following what the company said was the busiest holiday season in its history atop a surge in Covid cases from the Omicron variant, which is now easing in the United States.

Read More